# Nestable-coordinate-system-for-TikZ-circuits
More spaces can be easily allocated at any position in the current circuit to allow other circuits to nest inside and be connected to it, without damaging the original circuit logic.

         Gang Liu (gl.cell@outlook, http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1575-9290)
              and
         Shiwei Huang (huang937@gmail.com)

The CircuiTikZ package is very helpful in circuit design. Here a new coordinate system can be used together with it. Unlimited specific instances of the coordinate system can be generated by running the FORTRAN code coordinates.f90. Each is identified with a keyword of only lower-case English letters, but denoted as KEYWORD here, then a file called coordKEYWORD.tex is generated for use as an instance of the coordinate system. The coordKEYWORD.tex file sets the following macros:

    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDxxxspacing}{1}
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDyyyspacing}{1}
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDxxxa}{-8}
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDyyya}{-8}

    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDxxxb}{\KEYWORDxxxa + \KEYWORDxxxspacing + 0.0 }
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDxxxc}{\KEYWORDxxxb + \KEYWORDxxxspacing + 0.0 }
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDxxxd}{\KEYWORDxxxc + \KEYWORDxxxspacing + 0.0 }
        ...
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDxxxz}{\KEYWORDxxxy + \KEYWORDxxxspacing + 0.0 }

    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDyyyb}{\KEYWORDyyya + \KEYWORDyyyspacing + 0.0 }
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDyyyc}{\KEYWORDyyyb + \KEYWORDyyyspacing + 0.0 }
        ...
    \pgfmathsetmacro{\KEYWORDyyyz}{\KEYWORDyyyy + \KEYWORDyyyspacing + 0.0 }

    \coordinate (KEYWORDpppaa) at (\KEYWORDxxxa, \KEYWORDyyya);
    \coordinate (KEYWORDpppab) at (\KEYWORDxxxa, \KEYWORDyyyb);
    \coordinate (KEYWORDpppac) at (\KEYWORDxxxa, \KEYWORDyyyc);
        ...
    \coordinate (KEYWORDpppzy) at (\KEYWORDxxxz, \KEYWORDyyyy);
    \coordinate (KEYWORDpppzz) at (\KEYWORDxxxz, \KEYWORDyyyz);
    
where the coordinate setting is for all combinations of the xxx and yyy components. Any of the xxx and yyy components can be manually changed later to allocate more spaces from the coordinate, then coordinates after it will be moved the same distance as a whole.  Another way to get a new instance of the coordinate system is to copy the file coordgangliu.tex in the example01 into another then substitute all "gangliu" strings with a chosen KEYWORD inside the new file.

If circuits and/or parts of them are created with different specific instances of the coordinate system even by many people, they can be easily integrated, espectially some of them can be inserted into others then connected. 

The new commands

    \coordinatebackground
    \coordinatebackgroundxy 
    
for showing the coordinates as a reference background are coded in the file 
    afewmorecommandsintikzpiture.tex
where their usages are also given. They can only be used in the Tikz picture environment. 


More derails are shown in the example(s). 



Since Version 2.0, all additional coordinate-system files are generated based on the input file "in.dat". 
For each additional coordinate-system file, the file "in.dat" offers five-line information as follows:
                  the first line is the KEYWORD;
                  the second line is the first letter of the x-direction of the coordinate system;
                  the third line is the total number of the points in the x-direction of the coordinate system;
                  the fourth line is the first letter of the y-direction of the coordinate system;
                  and the fifth line is the total number of the points in the y-direction of the coordinate system.


The "in.dat" file may contain as many groups of the above five lines as needed, then the corresponding coordinate-system files can be generated by running coordinates.f90. 

